The player needs to retrieve an object and return it to the surface.
It is a sentient, malicious artifact which might harm people if it
is allowed to go unchecked, and the player (an apprentice in a magical
institution) has allowed it to escape into a magical portal by
carelessness (neglecting duties to look after it).

The artifact is rather cutesy and is not directly threatening, but
somehow indirectly. It is an immortal random-walker in the deep
dungeons; when the player bumps into it they pacify it by some known
spell (since they were the artifact's minder, they know this), and
it turns into an item. However, just before this it "glares angrily"
at the player and more dangerous monsters are spawned on all the
shallower levels (to avoid a boring ascent).

=

It had seemed like such an easy job.

Grand Witch Adrachia had appointed you personal assistant to
Professor Nislakh, the Special Advisor on Magical Warfare. Now,
it was widely known that the title of "personal assistant" was a
euphemism. Your real job was to make sure he didn't run
away and did not work any unauthorized magic. Nislakh was a
magically animated automaton, a techno-magical wonder left over
from the war. Although his immense intelligence made him
an asset that the University could not afford to lose, as a
sentient weapon he had been programmed to be vicious to the core,
and if left to his own devices he would surely hatch some
insidious plot of mass destruction.

Intellectually you were well aware that he was capable of this.
He'd been responsible for schemes that had cost thousands of
lives during the war. But since Professor Nislakh was a
cute little clockwork being of no more than sixteen inches,
walked with a ridiculous wobble, and communicated
verbally only in beeps and boops, it was, frankly, hard
to take him seriously as a threat to humankind. Besides, the University
had managed to reprogram him to be unable to directly harm a
human being in any way, and moreover, to fall asleep for forty-eight
hours at the sound of the word NIPLOP. With these safeguards,
surely being his minder should be the easiest job in the world.

Or so you'd thought. Which is why you'd brought a novel with you,
to have something to do in between fetching books for the
Professor for his research. During a particularly exciting paragraph
of chapter thirty-six, you'd been rudely interrupted by a loud
magical-sounding noise and the disappearance of Professor Nislakh
and half the library into a vast magical portal.

Now, you consider yourself a lover, not a fighter. But you're a
smart girl, and you'll have the resources of the Applied Runic Magic
section of the library at your disposal if you can only manage to
recover them. And all you're up against is a little dungeon and a
miniscule robot that can't harm you.

Hoping that Adrachia will forgive your carelessness if you compensate
for it with a little reckless heroism, you jump in after the professor.

=

You can't turn back now.

=

Professor Nislakh glares at you angrily and boops ominiously.
As you shout the code word into what looks like a sound receptor, he
winds down immediately, allowing you to pick him up without much
difficulty.


Professor Nislakh glares at you angrily and boops ominiously.
As you shout the code word into what looks like a sound receptor, he
winds down immediately. However, he's too heavy for you to pick
up right now.

You pick up Professor Nislakh.

You don't see much of a use for Professor Nislakh. However, Adrachia
would probably appreciate getting him back in one piece.

=

Returning to the University with the Professor slung over your
shoulder, you are greeted as a hero by masses of students.

Adrachia chastises you for your recklessness but commends you for
your bravery and skill. She promises to reward you with a
promotion as soon as she can find a task more suited to your
obvious magical talent and less requiring of the exercise of
prudence. For the moment, Nislakh is confined to a magical
holding cell where he won't be able to harm anyone.

Having saved the world and lived to tell the tale, you breathe
a sigh of relief and prepare to do just that.
